---
title: "sshfs"
date: 2023-12-03
draft: true
tags: ["ssh", "sshfs"]
slug: sshfs
---

### How to mount remote machine's directory on current host?

这个问题最初起源于我想要用 Kate 来编辑一个位于 macOS 上的配置文件。我正常 ssh in 到 macOS，cd 到那个 directory，然后输入 `kate <file>` 试图打开那个文件进行编辑的时候，发现欸？没有 kate 这个命令。噢，因为我是在 macOS 的环境下啊，当然没有 kate 了。但这是个问题，难不成我只能使用 vi 来编辑 remote 的文件？我看 [Asahi Lina](https://www.youtube.com/@AsahiLina) 在开发的时候，都是非常顺畅的用 Kate 打开她身边各个 Mac machine 里的项目、文件，编辑来编辑去。一定有什么方法可以办到。

原来就有 sshfs 这个命令，可以把 remote 的 directory mount 到当前的 localhost 上。然后就可以正常在 local 的环境下，cd 到那个 mount point，用 local 的编辑器，不管是 Kate、VS Code 也好，vi/vim 也可以，来编辑文件等等。所有的操作都是在 remote 上，即使表面看起来像是我在一个 local 的文件夹下编辑一个 local 的文件。

### Using sshfs mount remote directory at $USER directories (under $HOME).

```
sshfs mbp:/Users/thom/ ~/Desktop/remote-filesystem/
```

After running this, the remote filesystem will be accessible locally at `~/Desktop/remote-filesystem/`. It can be unmounted using either `fusermount -u remote-filesystem` or `sudo umount remote-filesystem`.

After mounting with `sshfs`, the user and group for directory `~/Desktop/remote-filesystem` will change to `501` and `games`. Here is the explaination of this from Claude.ai:

> The user and group IDs you are seeing (501 and games) correspond to the user and primary group ownership of the mounted Mac directory on the Linux side.
>
> On macOS, each user is assigned a UID (user ID) and GID (group ID). The first user created gets UID/GID 501 by default. And the primary group for users is normally the staff group, which has the GID of 20.
>
> However, when you mount the Mac directory onto your Linux system using SSHFS, it does not map the macOS user and group names to Linux users and groups. Instead, it just exposes the raw numeric IDs from macOS.
>
> So the user ID 501 and group ID games (which is probably 20) simply represent the macOS owner and group of the mounted directory. The names are shown as the numeric values since your Linux system does not have equivalently named users or groups defined.
>
> This is expected behavior with SSHFS. The ownership stays the same numerically, but the names do not map over. Everything should still work properly, but you just see the raw IDs instead of translated names in the Linux listing.

Just be aware that the user and group will differ from what you may expect based on your local filesystem.

---

```
sshfs mbp:/Users/thom/ ~/Desktop/remote-filesystem/ -d
```

Adding the `-d` flag will enable debug mode and print debugging information, consequently blocking the current terminal session as long as the process is running. The debugging info looks like this:

```sh
$ sshfs mbp:/Users/thom/Desktop/ ~/Desktop/remote-filesystem/ -d
SSHFS version 3.7.3
executing <ssh> <-x> <-a> <-oClearAllForwardings=yes> <-2> <mbp> <-s> <sftp>
Server version: 3
Extension: posix-rename@openssh.com <1>
Extension: statvfs@openssh.com <2>
Extension: fstatvfs@openssh.com <2>
Extension: hardlink@openssh.com <1>
Extension: fsync@openssh.com <1>
Extension: lsetstat@openssh.com <1>
Extension: limits@openssh.com <1>
Extension: expand-path@openssh.com <1>
Extension: copy-data <1>
Extension: home-directory <1>
Extension: users-groups-by-id@openssh.com <1>
[00001] EXTENDED
[00002] EXTENDED
  [00001] EXTENDED_REPLY       97bytes (5ms)
  [00002] EXTENDED_REPLY       97bytes (5ms)
[00003] LSTAT
  [00003]          ATTRS       41bytes (87ms)
[00004] LSTAT
  [00004]         STATUS       33bytes (8ms)
[00005] LSTAT
  [00005]         STATUS       33bytes (4ms)
[00006] LSTAT
  [00006]         STATUS       33bytes (5ms)
[00007] OPENDIR
  [00007]         HANDLE       17bytes (33ms)
...
```

You can still use `fusermount -u remote-filesystem` and `sudo umount remote-filesystem` to unmount it, once you unmount it, the debug info printing will stop:

```sh
...
[00015] LSTAT
  [00015]         STATUS       33bytes (5ms)

sent:               15 messages, 485 bytes
received:           15 messages, 1613 bytes
rtt min/max/avg:    4ms/106ms/16ms
num connect:        1
```

Additionally, you can pass `-v` to it: `sshfs mbp:/Users/thom/ ~/Desktop/remote-filesystem/ -d -v`. According to `man sftp`, the effect of `-v` is:

> -v  Raise logging level.  This option is also passed to ssh.

Let's dig more deep, take a closer look at the ssh man page `man ssh`:

> -v  Verbose mode.  Causes ssh to print debugging messages about its progress.  This is helpful in debugging connection, authentication, and configuration problems.  Multiple -v options increase the verbosity.  The maximum is 3.

But anyway, it is doubtful whether this flag is effective in this case.

### Using sshfs mount remote directory at /mnt (root directory)

It can also be used (without requiring `sudo`) to mount a remote directory at **/mnt**:

```
sshfs mbp:/Users/thom/ /mnt/remote-filesystem/
```

但是即便我没有给 allow_other 的 flag 给它：`-o allow_other`，在 mount point (in this case `/mnt/remote-filesystem/` directory) 我还是可以作为一个普通 user cd 进去：`cd /mnt/remote-filesystem`。

仍然，`/mnt/remote-filesystem` 的 user 和 group 为 501 和 games。

---

The reason you can use `fusermount -u remote-filesystem` and `sudo umount remote-filesystem` to unmount remote filesystem...sshfs 跟 FUSE filesystem 有什么关系？

`man sshfs`:

```
To mount a filesystem:

    sshfs [user@]host:[dir] mountpoint [options]

To unmount it:

    fusermount3 -u mountpoint   # Linux
    umount mountpoint           # OS X, FreeBSD
```

`man mount.fuse`:

> FUSE filesystems are unmounted using the fusermount(1) command (`fusermount -u mountpoint`).

---

Some reference man page deserve to be further investigate:

- `man sshfs`
- `man sftp`
- `man mount.fuse`
- `man fusermount`
